# Compare the data modeling approaches used in relational databases and XXX. Provide compelling examples of scenarios where one approach is preferred over the other.

## XXX = Document stores

Document stores are using a hierarchical data structure where objects or array of objects are distinguished by tags. Some famous document stores are xml and json. Rational database can use json or xml but not with the same principle as the documented one.

Document store is better than SQL to store blog post. Post can be an object that contains comment, note, views, autor, etc. Comment can be object that contains comment, note, view, autor, etc.

## XXX = Graph stores

## XXX = Column-family stores

in SQL column-store stores each column in different files. but, in column-family, each family (that can contain multiple columns) has its own file storage.

Due to this, column-family do not support JOIN operation

Column-family stores is better than SQL in the case of keeping a lot of unstructured data type in a distributed way

## XXX = Key-Value stores

key-value stores attribute a key to each value. To access the data, we just need to take the value corresponding to the key. This is fast and easy. The data can be whatever data.

It is similar to SQL, SQL does have keys associated to row where data is stored. But in key-value stores, value can be complex data structure, as files.

Key-value stores is better than SQL in the case of keeping the session of web client. To do this with key-value stores, we just need to use the client id as key and all session information (probably a json) as associated value