# Weak and strong fairness: definition, motivation, construction of corresponding observers.

A **Formal Concurrent System (FCS)** is a triplet (P,M,T) where:
- P is a finite set of process
- M is the memory, the condition $\rightarrow$ what change
- T is a finite set of transition
- example: $(l_0^{p_1}, true \rightarrow (a, b) := (1, 5), l_1^{p_1})$

$\rho$ is an infinite behaviour (e.g. path) of a set of FCS.

An **observer** is a process that observe the behaviour of a set of FCS and check some properties. This process is executed at the same time has all other processes. It does not impact the execution of other processes. The transitions of an observer are attached to transition of the process.

An observer have the default transition that keep the same state: $(s_{ob_i}, true, s_{os_i})$

**Generalized Buchi** is an acceptance condition for infinite behaviour $\rho$. We define the acceptance condition as a set of set state $F = \{F_1, F_2, ..., F_k\}$ ($F_i$ is a colour). $\rho$ is accepted if it pass an infinite time in all $F_i$.

An **active transition** for $p$ is a transition that can be taken by a process $p$ in the current state.
An **enable transition** from $s$ is a transition that is starting from a state $s$.

## Weak fairness

Processes can be ignored and never progress. We can force all process to progress eventually using weak fairness.

**Weak fairness**: every processes are infinitely often either:
- no transition in which the process is active
- an active transition is followed
In other words, if a process want to progress, it will make it eventually

To construct the observer, we create define two FCS:
- $e(p_i)[s,t]$ that is true if $p_i$ can progress from $s$ (there exist an active transition for $p_i$ from $s$)
- $a(p_i)[s,t]$ that is true if $p_i$ follows the transition. ($p_i$ is active for the transition $t$)

Each process $p_i$ have its observer using these two FCS:

- There are two states: $\{l_0^{ob_i}, l_1^{ob_i}\}$
- The initial location is $l_0^{ob_i}$
- The transition are:
	- $(l_0^{ob_i}, e(p_i) \ and \ \neg a(p_i), l_1^{ob_i})$: there exist an active transition, and this has not been taken
	- $(l_1^{ob_i}, \neg e(p_i) \ or \ a(p_i))$: there exist no active transition or the transition has been taken
- The acceptance condition is $F^{ob_i} = \{\{l_0^{ob_i}\}\}$

**Problem**: weak fairness does not avoid starvation. One process could always run and making another process transition. $a(p_i)$ will always be false but $e(p_i)$ can vary between false and true.

## Strong fairness

The strong fairness permits to handle the starvation problem of the weak fairness.

Strong fairness: every process is either:
- from some point, no more transition is active for this process, ever
- an active transition is followed infinitely often

Using the same two defined FCS, the observer for a process $p_i$ is:
- There are four states: $\{l_0^{ob_i}, l_1^{ob_i}, l_2^{ob_i}, l_3^{ob_i}\}$
	- $l_0^{ob_i}$ There are future active transition
	- $l_1^{ob_i}$ A transition has just been taken
	- $l_2^{ob_i}$ There are no future active transition
	- $l_3^{ob_i}$ There exist an active transition but it was in no more active transition
- The initial location is $l_0^{ob_i}$
- The transition are:
	- $(l_0^{ob_i}, \neg e(p_i), l_0^{ob_i})$ if there exist no active transition
	- $(l_0^{ob_i}, a(p_i), l_1^{ob_i})$ if a transition has been taken
	- $(l_1^{ob_i}, true, l_0^{ob_i})$ always (wait for next transition)
	- $(l_0^{ob_i}, \neg e(p_i), l_2^{ob_i})$ if there exist no more active transition
	- $(l_2^{ob_i}, e(p_i), l_3^{ob_i})$ if there exist an active transition
- The acceptance condition is $F^{ob_i}=\{\{l_1^{ob_i}, l_2^{ob_i}\}\}$

This observer is non deterministic.